And this video we're going to be taking a look at swagger and documenting our restful API swagger is
a beautiful implementation on top of any restful API so that people using your API can get a sense of
what it looks like with its operation and the data coming in and out.
To make use of swaggerer in our projects I'm going to open up my restful API project
to enable swaggerer in our application all first going to get the dependencies swaggerer from our member
repository.
So for doing that I'll open up Firefox and go to maybe a repository and into maybe a repository to dependences
that we're looking for.
As spring Fox and swagger and the UI of the swaggerer
All right lets go it.
And the last version is 2.6 that one and let's copy dependency right here and include it in our project
you know upon file.
I'm going to go down to the dependencies part and simply paste it.
All right.
And the other dependency that we need is the spring forks swagga to which is the main dependency and
I'll say spring Fox swaggered to and here we have it and we're also going to get the 2.6 to 1 and I'll
chapati dependency and switch back to my ID and let's also paste it right here and here we go.
We have our swaggerer dependencies ready to build upon so to actually start building swaggerer in our
application.
We have to be starting off with a configuration class for swagger.
So for that purpose I'm going to create a configuration package and name it as Confed.
And in that config package I'm going to have a swagger config class
within that class let's first say this is a configuration class.
All right.
Now we are going to do a swagger conflagration within this entire class.
The starting point for all the configuration that we have is the Enable swaggerer to annotation with
sanitation.
We're getting the most functionality for swaggerer 2 and after that we're going to be including our
controller in the components scan so that swaggerer configuration can scan our controllers and attach
itself to them.
So for doing that I'm going to say component scan components scan and I'll provide the base package
classes as product
controller class.
All right.
And the last thing that we're going to do is we're going to provide a property source for swaggerer
properties.
So if we're doing that I'm going to say property source and within that property source I'm going to
be including my properties which in my class that and the properties file is going to be named as swaggerer
properties.
Let's copy the name and create this class create properties file right away.
So Copy that.
And in my research files I'll create a new file and simply paste the name.
All right let's switch back to our swaggerer configuration and start configuring our swagger.
For any API that you have you have to be providing a version and license tax for those tags.
I'm going to be providing private properties here so private static and final string swaggerer API version.
So let's name our API version as 1.0 and also provide a license that so private's that final and license
text
and our license tax is simply going to say license.
All right.
We're also going to provide a title and a description for our swaggerer documentation.
So for doing that I'm going to say private static final string and that title is going to be products
ISAPI
and for a description I'm going to say string again and description is going to be
restful
and let's fix that and restful API for products.
All right we have our static variables so that we can use our configuration for our configuration.
We're going to be doing two things.
First we're going to be creating an API info and with that API info we're going to be creating a docket
which is the main type of swagger with that Duckett we're going to be providing the specifics of our
restfully API and like the path that we're going to serve our restful documentation for swagger and
all the other configurations that we're going to have.
Let's start by our API info and say private API info
and our API info is going to be simply named as API in full so that we can reference it within our Luckett
configuration and within our API in-fill I'm going to say return new API.
BUILDER.
And after that I'm going to provide my title as the title that I read it and description as the description
I have and then license as the license variable that my creative write about.
And after that I'm going to provide the version as the swaggerer API version I provide it and then I'm
simply going to say build
all right we have our API info and to make use of our API info.
I'm not going to create a bucket for that docket.
Let's say public
docket is going to be products API.
And then let's start configuring our docket in our docket.
I'm going to say return new Duckett.
And inside it I'm going to be saying the documentation type and the documentation type is going to be
for swaggerer too.
And after that I'm going to be providing my API info.
The one that I provided above and I'm also going to be providing my path mapping the actual path that
I'm going to be serving my API and I'm going to be using my roof path and then I'm going to be saying
that selectees configuration and then add the paths for my restful documentation and those paths is
going to be done by the regular expressions.
So I'm going to use a path selectors and I'll provide a regular expression now.
And that regular expression is going to be like API
dot and Asterix.
So I'm simply saying that anything after API is included in my swaggerer documentation and I'm fine
with it.
So I can say simply build that the final step in our swaggerer configuration is we're going to say that
our docket is a spring being so that it can be component scanned and adjusted as the way we like it.
All right we have our swagger configuration right now.
For the final touches we have to go to our controller and provide some specific details of our operations.
So let's go to our control class in our controller class.
The first thing that we're going to provide is the API annotation
with this API annotation.
We can simply say about the API that we have and for the value I'm going to say this is the products
controller API and for the producers I'm going to say this is going to be providing a J sound to my
users and I'm going to say application Jason well-you and in my actual operations I'm going to say the
get operation that I have is going to be returning my users
get an operation that I have is going to be annotated as API operation and this API operation gets the
product with specific ID all right and of course I can provide some API responses and within the API
responses I'm going to provide de-value as
let's say API response and the first response that we're going to have is 200.
And the message for that 200 is ok.
All right.
Response time.
We're going to returning to our user ears type of product that class.
All right.
Now let's check out our swaggerer documentation and see what it looks like to do that.
I'm going to run my application now.
Our application is starting up now.
And here we go.
And as you can see from the console output we have some new console outputs right here Dyllon says that
found one custom documentation plug ins and that plug in is the swaggerer configuration that we included
in our application.
So to check it out I'm going to open up the Firefox
and go to my application.
So it is under localhost and ADHD for swagger.
I'm going to be using swagger dash y dot as Timo.
This is the default page for swaggerer annotations so you can simply override it.
But if you don't want to make any specific configuration you can use swaggerer dash Hawai.
So let's hit enter and see our swaggerer API documentation.
And here we go.
We have our beautiful UI with swagger.
And as you can see we have our product controller scanned and listed right here.
Let's click on it and here we go.
We have all of our operations for our products.
We have post-operation we have our delete operation.
We have our Get operation with the tax that we provided the API operation annotation.
Now we also have the put operation for the title routine see the tile that we provide it and for the
description we provided the rest will API for products.
And as you can see here our version is 1.0 as you can see with this very basic configuration working
with swagger and documenting your API is very easy.
And if we go to the details of any of your operation you can see the response class that we provided
within our API operations and you can see the beautified version of your example well-you of your entity
model and you can easily make requests for your API within this beautiful section.
You can provide an ID and you can simply hit the tried out button as you can see even with the simple
configuration you can have a full fledge restful API documentation with swagger and it has a beautiful
and nice UI for showing and displaying your operations.
I hope you enjoyed it and you can use this ragged documentation in any of your application with ease.
Just like I did in my project.